Welcome to JW Broadcasting.
This month we will discuss how to meet the challenge of bearing thorough witness.
Is your territory difficult to reach?
Do language and cultural differences make you apprehensive?
That's what these publishers faced when they moved to where the need is greater.
We'll learn how they stepped up to the challenge.
This sister embraced the truth during a time of violent division in Northern Ireland.
How does she muster the courage to preach to everyone in her community?
We'll see how Jehovah helped her.
All this and more on JW Broadcasting.
Imagine the astonished look on the faces of the apostles.
The resurrected Jesus stands before them on the Mount of Olives.
Just before he disappears into the clouds,
Jesus makes this profound declaration as recorded at Acts 1-8.
You will receive power when the Holy Spirit comes upon you,
and you will be witnesses of me in Jerusalem, in Al-Judiya and Samaria,
and to the most distant part of the earth.
What an assignment!
They were to preach the good news of God's kingdom throughout the earth.
Those disciples must have felt overwhelmed,
and wondered how such a small band of preachers could ever get this work done.
Ten days later, they received the promised Holy Spirit, and they got to work.
True, they faced many challenges, but that did not stop them.
Three years passed, and the preaching work was expanded to include Gentiles.
We can read the moving account in Acts chapter 10.
First, an angel of God appears to the God-fearing army officer Cornelius.
Then Peter responds to the leadings of God's Spirit to go to the officer's home.
There, Peter gives a thorough witness about Jesus,
not only to Cornelius, but also to his family and friends.
As he concludes his discourse, Peter explains the commission he received to be an evangelizer.
Let's open to Acts 10.42, and note the two main aspects of the preaching work started by Jesus.
Also, he ordered us to preach to the people, and to give a thorough witness
that this is the one decreed by God to be judge of the living and the dead.
First, Jesus commanded his disciples to preach to the people.
In addition, they were to give a thorough witness.
The disciples were to search out honest-hearted deserving ones.
That would require a thorough coverage of their territory.
In spite of vicious persecution, Christians in the first century obeyed Jesus' command to preach and to bear thorough witness.
And by about 60 of our common era, less than 30 years after the Christians had received their commission,
Paul could write to the congregation in Colossi that the good news had been preached in all creation under heaven.
What a testimony to the power of God's Holy Spirit, and the faith, zeal, and determination of those early disciples.
In the late 1800s, a small group of Bible students rose to the challenge of bearing thorough witness.
An article in the April 1881 issue of Zion's Watchtower had the thrilling title, Wanted, 1000 Preachers.
Today, Jehovah's Witnesses are bearing witness in 240 lands.
But doing so has its challenges.
What are some of those challenges? And what can we do to meet them?
Many of our brothers face the challenge of long distances, climate extremes, rough terrain, and poor travel conditions.
In some areas, just getting to meet people is a challenge. To add to the challenge, Revelation 146 reminds us that the good news would be declared to every nation and tribe and tongue and people.
This can require learning a new language and understanding different religious, ethnic, and cultural backgrounds.
It can mean coping with unresponsive territories, apathy, and poor living conditions.
Jesus warned that opposers would try to hinder or stop the preaching work. No doubt you are facing some form of challenge in your local territory.
We cannot begin to give possible solutions to all the obstacles we face today.
But it is helpful to learn how others are coping with their challenges, and this can stimulate our thinking to identify ways to meet our challenges.
Let's focus on three Bible principles that will help us to carry out our ministry successfully.
One, trust in Jehovah. Two, be flexible. And three, stay focused.
How can trusting in Jehovah help us? Consider an example.
During the 1990s, Jehovah's Witnesses in France endured an avalanche of negative media reports.
As a result of these vicious attacks, some brothers lost their jobs. Witness children were taunted at school.
Preaching became extremely difficult in some areas. How did they cope?
The turning point came in January 1999. The governing body approved a special campaign to distribute a magazine-sized tract that exposed all of the accusations as false.
Beginning early one Friday morning, witnesses throughout France distributed 12 million copies of the tract in just three days.
This campaign gave them renewed strength and boldness to preach.
In the 19 years that followed, there was a continuous increase in the number of publishers, and the ranks of regular pioneers swelled to over 15,000.
If you constantly face a barrage of negative media reports, does this mean that you need a special campaign to meet the challenge?
Not necessarily. Although the campaign was a stimulus, brothers and sisters in France said that what really gave them strength and boldness were the words of 2 Chronicles 32-8. Let's read it.
The setting is in the time of King Hezekiah of Judah. The people were beaten down by the repeated threats and taunts of the Assyrians. What strengthened them?
Speaking about the King of Assyria, King Hezekiah declared,
With him is an arm of flesh, but with us is Jehovah our God to help us and to fight our battles. What was the result? The people were strengthened by the words of King Hezekiah of Judah.
Just hearing this reminder that Jehovah would help them was enough to strengthen the Jews.
Jehovah took action and sent an angel to destroy the enemy army.
Does Jehovah use his angels to help us today?
Note what we read at Revelation 146.
I saw another angel flying in mid-Heaven, and he had everlasting good news to declare to those who dwell on the earth, to every nation, and tribe, and tongue, and people.
Be sensitive to angelic direction and the leadings of God's Holy Spirit.
If you feel moved to make that one last call, or to speak to the person next to you on the bus, do it. Speak up!
It may well be that an angel is directing you to one who is rightly disposed for everlasting life.
Now let's consider the second Bible principle that will help us to bear thorough witness. Be flexible.
Sometimes just getting to talk to people can be a challenge. To overcome this obstacle, we need to be flexible.
Takanori and Yumi Takahashi have served in territories that are as different as night and day. Recently they visited our studio.
Listen as they tell us how they have learned to meet the challenges of bearing thorough witness.
Takanori and Yumi, welcome to our studio. Thank you for inviting us, and we're very happy to have you here.
Takanori, you and I go back a long way. I still remember when you came into Japan Bethel back in 1977, and we served in the same congregation for a number of years.
But then in 1990, you had a big change in your life. Would you like to tell us what happened?
Yes, my twin brother Nobuaki was also serving at Bethel.
To our surprise, we were assigned to Papua New Guinea as missionaries.
That was a big change, and here you are working in the rural territory of Papu New Guinea.
During your 25 years in Papu New Guinea, I understand that you served in the missionary field, in the circuit work, and also at Bethel.
So Yumi, when did you come into the picture?
Takanori and I were married in September 1993, and I joined him in the missionary work.
Adapting to remote territories such as this was a challenge.
So in order to bear thorough witness, what kind of challenges did you have to overcome?
The people of Papua New Guinea are very friendly. They have a deep respect for the Bible.
It was easy to relax. Speak to them face to face, to read the scriptures together, and read with them.
Those don't sound like challenges. Did you face any obstacles?
When we preached in the villages, the response of the local people often depended on the response of the village chief.
If he listened, almost the whole village listened. But if his response was negative, the people would walk away and hide in the bush.
So we would always show respect and approach the village chief first.
This often, move him to view our visit with favor.
Challenging the cities was mainly security.
It wasn't safe for us to go into some areas alone or to visit homes regularly.
So we would ask our Bible students to come to the Kingdom Hall for their study before the meeting.
That was a good way to encourage them to attend meetings.
Well, it's obvious that you enjoyed your service in Papua New Guinea. But now you're serving as special pioneers in the Myhama congregation, just 20 minutes from downtown Tokyo.
So you went from a territory where people have deep respect for the Bible to a land where less than 1% of the people claim to be Christian.
So what other kind of differences did you find between your territory in Japan now and your missionary territory?
Oh, it's very different. Tokyo Disneyland is in our territory. And 70% of homes are in high-security apartment buildings.
We have to stand in the lobby, in front of the door, press a button and speak to our camera.
Coming from Papua New Guinea, we found it challenging to work this territory.
We were used to friendly discussions face to face. Now we see only the lens of a camera.
But we have learned to view the camera as our friend.
As your friend, I think most of us find it challenging to speak to a camera. So how do you overcome this challenge?
We know that, as soon as we push the button, our face shows up on the screen inside of the apartment.
We stand on arm lengths from the camera, so that our face is framed nicely.
And we adjust our volume accordingly, taking into consideration the Doha Man and others who may be listening.
We say our greeting about two seconds after we push the button.
Just when we know that they are looking at the monitor.
Our friendly greeting and one smile makes them feel like we can actually see their face.
We prepare a specific, appealing introduction and show them respect and consideration.
The people in our territory like to be viewed as successful, not as people who have problems.
So we try to focus on positive subjects. We prepare a variety of subjects so that they don't hear the same message over and over.
Like many people, Japanese do not like to be put on a spot.
So instead of asking a question and waiting for them to answer, we use the teaching method of our trucks and give three possible answers for them to choose from.
Well, have you had positive results from this intercom preaching?
Since we started to use this method, the number of note homes has decreased.
And also, when we meet people on the street, sometimes they say they know us because they saw us on their intercom.
That was excellent. And thank you Takanori and Yumi for sharing with us how you have met the challenge of bearing thorough witness in a variety of territories.
First Corinthians 9, 22 and 23. Let's read it.
I have become all things to people of all sorts so that I might by all possible means save some.
But I do all things for the sake of the good news in order to share it with others.
Become all things. Do all things. In other words, be flexible.
Apply the suggestions in the meeting workbook. Get well acquainted with each tool in the teaching toolbox.
Observe how experienced publishers and pioneers use those tools. Understand the feelings and circumstances of people in the territory.
Even in the same territory, we may need to use a variety of approaches.
For example, about 40% of the apartment buildings in the Takahashi's territory do not allow the witnesses to enter the lobby.
So they do public and informal witnessing to reach those people.
Now let's consider the third Bible principle. Stay focused.
At Matthew 6.22, Jesus said,
The lamp of the body is the eye. If then your eye is focused, your whole body will be bright.
Keeping our eye focused means keeping our life simple in order to concentrate on spiritual matters.
Distractions take our attention and energy away from our responsibility to bear thorough witness.
Before we can teach those who are rightly disposed for everlasting life, we have to find them.
We leave no stone unturned as we search for them at their homes, on the streets, in parks, in stores, and at the workplace.
There is no on-off switch for our preaching work. Our preaching switch must be on at all times.
Not only do we look for opportunities to preach, but we also make opportunities.
What if our efforts to find interested ones are not fruitful?
Jesus did not say that every human must become a disciple before the end comes.
Rather, he said that the end will come after the good news has been preached in all the inhabited earth and a witness has been given to all the nations.
The Apostle Paul stayed focused on his ministry.
May we imitate his positive attitude expressed at Acts 20-24.
Nevertheless, I do not consider my own life of any importance to me.
If only I may finish my course and the ministry that I received from the Lord Jesus to bear thorough witness to the good news of the undeserved kindness of God.
The opportunity to bear thorough witness will soon be over.
May we use the remaining time effectively to search for deserving ones and to teach them the truth.
Imitate the faith of Hezekiah and trust in Jehovah.
Learn from the Apostle Paul and be flexible.
Obey Jesus' direction and stay focused.
Then you too can meet the challenge of bearing thorough witness.
Another challenge of bearing thorough witness is preaching in the midst of civil unrest.
Starting in the 1960s, our brothers in Northern Ireland endured 30 violent years known as the Troubles.
K. Herrigan learned the truth during those difficult times.
Listen, as K. describes how she was drawn to the truth and how it changed her life.
We were signs of stones, petrol bombs, people screaming.
Those were the sins we grew up with.
Back then I was raised as a Catholic in an area which became known for the troubles that began there.
We were a very divided city.
It was Catholic, nationalist and unionist Protestant.
A close friend had been in the wrong place at the wrong time.
After the funeral, I went to the chapel and knelt down and addressed God directly.
There has been far too much death and it can't go on.
But I promise you, I will be the best Catholic.
I can be.
But you need to give me some answers.
I went back home and was trying to be a good Catholic and Jehovah's people knocked at the door.
My husband had a short story.
Because I had made an agreement with God, I would stay in the kitchen but with the door open.
I heard the young couple back then and they used a name I had never heard before.
It was God's personal name.
My husband decided that this was not for him.
But I remember popping my head through the door and going, but I am the hope that all those people, all those peers, all the burials that we had had, would be reversed.
I was baptized in 1985.
And while it was lovely to be one of Jehovah's people, when you looked around and realized none of Jehovah's people lived here, I felt so isolated in my own violence was something that could break out in certain areas.
But almost every day, we're talking sniper fire, we're talking civil unrest, coming from a Catholic, Republican background.
I would have feared going into some areas.
There were places that I would never have been but for the truth.
Jehovah's people had come to my door personally knocked on it.
We're aware of the dangers around them and that in turn would have faded me to do the same thing.
One day on the monastery, I knocked on the door and a man opened the door.
But I noticed he looked hyper vigilant and I thought there's something not right here.
So I had my Bible and I offered him the watchtower and immediately his face relaxed.
And he said, oh, my wife reached those magazines just a second.
And as he passed the table on the hall, he simply put a revolver on the table.
At that time, I realized that Jehovah is not a God who is prejudice.
I'm more integrated with the congregation and the fear of working in other territories that I would never have been on as God.
Jehovah widened your world. Jehovah gives you a reason to get up in the morning.
Put on your coat, walk out the front door and the happiness of bringing good news.
It's a wonderful feeling to know that in the time you buried Jehovah's name, it's something to be very bright of.
Something to be absolutely bright of.
Trusting in Jehovah helped Kay overcome her fears.
What blessings did she receive?
Kay said that she has the happiness of bringing good news to everyone.
Since 2013, the School for Kingdom Evangelizers has prepared brothers and sisters to serve where there is a greater need.
Even with this training, however, graduates sometimes find their assignments challenging.
We'll see that in our next segment from Tanzania.
I wanted to help the deaf so that they too can know Jehovah.
So I decided to move to a sign language territory, the sign language group in Der Esalam.
We had to travel by bus and sometimes we traveled far, stacking a traffic jam for two to three hours and it was expensive.
I still remember my early days in service with the sign language group.
I was very inexperienced with the language and one day my service partner asked me to conduct a Bible study.
Every time I tried to talk to the student, she didn't understand.
As I kept trying, she became more and more frustrated with me and I started to feel discouraged.
I wanted to help, but I was powerless.
I felt bad. I told myself, I still don't know the deaf.
I still don't know sign language.
Why has Jehovah brought me into this field in which I'm not able to help the deaf?
I was invited to the School for Kingdom Evangelizers in 2014 from September to November.
After graduating, I received an assignment in sign language again.
Jehovah truly helped me so much.
That was exactly the encouragement I needed to persevere in learning the language and becoming more effective in my assignment.
I was able to conduct my own Bible studies and they could really understand me now.
When we started, there were two baptized deaf publishers, but now they are over 10.
I've had the opportunity to help three deaf people to make progress, to dedicate themselves to Jehovah and get baptized.
The training I received at the School is still helping me now in my new assignment at the Translation Office, where I set together with my husband.
We are joyful because we know that through this work, many deaf people will receive publications in their language, and this will bring about an increase in this territory.
I graduated from the School for Kingdom Evangelizers in 2015, and it was a privilege to receive the assignment to call help the Messiah to know Jehovah in their mother tongue.
Traveling is difficult. Sometimes I travel by vehicle, but sometimes there are areas in which there are no vehicles, so I'm forced to walk.
Sometimes I can travel by motorcycle to reach many more people, but still transportation is a difficult part of it.
There are valleys, there are mountains, there are uphills, there are downhills, so transportation is difficult.
When I finally reached the territory, I was able to find the Messiah.
I was apprehensive about their reaction because I know their culture. They don't know Jehovah, so I wondered what would happen when I reached their territory.
During that stressful time, I prayed to Jehovah. I read his word the Bible, I meditated on accounts of our brothers and sisters mentioned in the Bible, and after prayer, Jehovah gave me strength.
I was able to return to them, make return visit, and start Bible studies, so the results have been good.
I am happy that after starting studies, some started taking steps and attending meetings.
They later made good progress, and now some of them are our brothers and sisters. They dedicated themselves and were baptized.
I feel so much joy. Jehovah has given me the strength, the ability to be used to further the preaching of the good news and to help the Messiah spiritually.
Sabina said that she was discouraged. Saitoti was stressed. Have you ever felt that way about your ministry? What helped them?
Sabina persevered. She became proficient in sign language and had the joy of helping several deaf ones learn the truth.
Saitoti relied on prayer and meditation. Jehovah gave him the strength to bear witness to the Messiah, and we saw the encouraging results.
Showing love and concern for people is a vital element in bearing thorough witness. This was the subject of a recent morning worship program conducted by Brother William Turner, and we're happy to share it with you.
His theme is, make known the good news.
How does it make you feel knowing God's support is real, and that He's entrusted us to do the work we do?
We know that song. We love that song. But I'd be able to stop to meditate on the lyrics. How do we feel?
Because really it's such a tremendous amazing privilege that Jehovah has entrusted to his people the work of kingdom preaching and disciple making.
While the work at Bethel contributes to the preaching work in a very precious and unique way, we still recognize it's quite special to be able to assist someone in the ministry and watch them progress to the point of making a dedication and symbolizing that by water baptism.
Our text comments mentions the qualities of gratitude and undeserved kindness, and these are good qualities because they're qualities that motivate us, that move us to action, that touch our emotions.
Why is this emotional investment so important when it comes to our ministry?
I think, for example, of our greatest teacher and preacher, whoever walked the earth, that is Jesus Christ.
Turn with me and your Bibles, please, to Luke chapter 19, and we'll just take a look at one instance of how Jesus demonstrated this love and concern.
Luke chapter 19, verse 41, it says, and when he, that is Jesus, got nearby, he viewed the city Jerusalem and wept over it.
How interesting. Jesus' heart was filled with so much emotion that his eyes brimmed over with tears when he contemplated the people, their rejection of the message,
the siege that was to follow, does not show his love for people, and obviously that love was made evident the entire time that he was here on the earth.
Now, we may not give way to tears every time we go into our territory and engage in the ministry, but certainly we want to imitate Jesus' example because it's so vital that we have and demonstrate love for people.
It reminds me of a conversation I had with a missionary sister some time ago, and at the time she was reviewing her personal circumstances and she felt that at that time she could comfortably handle 10 Bible studies.
So I asked her how things were going. She said, well, actually I have 20. She says I was able to get rid of six. She says, but I just can't turn over these last four.
She says, there's such a part of my life. I just can't let them go.
I don't sound like a good problem to have, but doesn't it highlight her love for people? She was emotionally invested.
Now, we also have to admit that while preaching is a wonderful work, actually carrying it out is not always easy to do.
Perhaps at times we may feel like the prophet Jeremiah. You recall when he was commissioned as a prophet, he gave Jehovah a number of reasons why he shouldn't be selected.
He was too shy, too young, wasn't able to speak well.
And then once he got into his assignment and the opposition and the ridicule started, well, let's take note of his feelings. Turn with me please to Jeremiah in chapter 20.
Jeremiah chapter 20 will begin with the B part of verse eight. For me, the word of Jehovah has been the cause of insults and jeering all day long.
So I said, I am not going to make mention of him and I will speak no more in his name. Have you ever had times where you felt like Jeremiah, where we just didn't have the desire or feel like speaking to others about Jehovah?
And maybe it was for similar reasons. We're shy. We feel nervous. People in the territory are indifferent. Or could it just be that we're just tired?
The energy that we feel we need, we just don't have it.
That's normal to feel this way of times. Absolutely. But let's take note of what Jeremiah says next. Let's finish verse nine.
He says, but in my heart, it became like a burning fire. Shut up in my bones. And I was tired of holding it in. I could no longer endure it.
You notice it was Jeremiah's love for Jehovah, his zeal for the truth, his strong spirituality. All of these were things that were able to help him remain invested and be able to overcome any temporary discouragement.
He might have been feeling at that time.
So what can help us to stay invested to maintain our love for people? Well, there are many ways, but we'll discuss two.
First, Jeremiah's example shows us that there is never a substitute for study of God's word.
Did you notice what was that burning fire shut up in his bones?
Verse eight tells us it was the word of Jehovah.
So it was Jeremiah's appreciation for the importance of his message that made him responsive to the encouragement he received when he read God's word.
And it works the same for us as well. Study of God's word helps to reinforce our love for Jehovah.
It's a constant reminder that we're living in the last days that we're deep in the time of the end, and we need to do all that we can to find those who are rightly disposed for everlasting life.
Yes, it is natural. We are going to experience discouragement from time to time.
But when we pray to Jehovah for help, you see, if his word is in our hearts, then Jehovah can freely impart his Holy Spirit to us.
He can give us what we need to be boldly preachers of the good news and be productive in our ministry.
Now, the second thing that can help us is by applying the suggestions that are given to us by the slave to help us improve our ministry.
Now, perhaps in the past, preaching may have been difficult, maybe because of just pressure we put upon ourselves.
Perhaps we may have felt that we had to have the perfect presentation, or we had to place a certain amount of literature.
But how loving it is that we see that with the various adjustments that have been made in our ministry, well, hopefully some of that anxiety has been lifted.
Because now we know our focus is on starting conversations. And with the help of prayer and God's Spirit, we can see how that just naturally progresses into a witness.
We just think back for a moment to the example of Jesus. We can only imagine how many preaching opportunities Jesus must have had just from starting conversations.
Of course, the one we're most familiar with to John chapter 4, the Samaritan woman at the well, not only was that a great witness, but just think about all of those who became believers afterward.
And all of that started simply from Jesus starting a conversation asking for water.
We may not always have as many opportunities as Bethel to engage in the house to housework as we would like.
But certainly as we travel, as we move about, this can present greater opportunities to start conversations.
In last month's meeting workbook, there was an article, starting conversations that can lead to a witness.
And that article just provided many excellent practical suggestions that we can implement.
So if we follow these suggestions, well, this is a nice way that we can show and demonstrate our gratitude. We're making the best use of our time to start a witness.
So as we mentioned, there are many ways that we can show our gratitude, but certainly these two, our study of God's Word, applying the suggestions to improve our ministry, our two ways that we can certainly implement.
So an implementation of Jesus, Jeremiah, many other faithful witnesses of Jehovah.
May we do what we can to show that we are invested, that we show our love for God, our love for people as we appreciatively carry out our commission to preach the good news.
Love never fails. Was the theme of last year's conventions.
Twenty-four international conventions were held in different parts of the earth.
As we'll see in the following report, our international conventions showcased the love and unity of Jehovah's people, and they provided a tremendous witness.
Jesus said that the identifying mark of true Christians would be their love for one another.
This was especially evident at our 2019 Love Never Fails International conventions.
I never expected the welcome that we received. They were over 200 brothers in the airport.
For me, it's like I'm a paradise already because the love I feel here wherever I turn this love.
As I walked around the corner, the reception of the friends, the way they embraced me, was something that I could not have expected.
No one could have even described it to me.
Mexico has a lot of different cultures, but here in this stadium we are one people, united by love, serving Jehovah.
That's unique, it's wonderful, and it's all thanks to love.
It doesn't matter where we come from or what language we speak, the language here is love.
Our love of neighbor motivated us to share in a global preaching campaign.
Foreign delegates worked shoulder to shoulder with hosts from the local city to invite millions of people from around the world to one of the 24 international conventions.
This gave our brothers and sisters from different parts of the globe an opportunity to get to know each other, united by the common goal of spreading the good news to everyone they met.
I worked in field service with the sister who used to study the Bible with a Brazilian woman.
The sister had prayed to send a Brazilian sister to accompany her.
When we visited the woman together, she could see the love we have between us and the efforts we made to come so far to attend the convention here in Denmark.
Over a million people attended the international conventions in many different languages.
Both foreign and local delegates, as well as newly interested ones, were able to learn firsthand how love never fails.
Close your cells with love for it as a perfect bond of union.
First, love identifies us.
Humility, that's love in action.
Loyal love is a beautiful aspect of Jehovah's personality.
Well Jesus made it simple, didn't he?
He said, look for the love. Look for the love and you'll find the right religion.
Christian love has power. It can reach hearts in ways that the spoken word cannot.
But really, what other group of persons on earth are interested in discussing love that doesn't fail.
When someone sees us, they should see a loving individual.
When they see any one of us who are servants of Jehovah, then they should see love.
In addition to spending time in the ministry, activities were planned so that delegates could get to know their brothers better.
This gave delegates the opportunity to learn about the culture and our spiritual heritage in the host country.
In some cities, they visited exhibits and locations where previously our faith and love had been tested.
For example, delegates in Berlin had the opportunity to visit Soxonhausen concentration camp, where many of our brothers were imprisoned during World War II.
I thought it was especially amazing, despite the circumstances of the brothers and sisters faced.
Even their persecutors had to recognize the true, identify a mark of Christianity, of love.
This visit showed the faithful endurance our brothers and sisters demonstrated under vicious persecution.
And the love they had for Jehovah, a fitting example of love that never fails.
Adolf Hitler wanted to exterminate Jehovah's Witnesses. He called them a brood.
But instead, Jehovah's Witnesses are still here, proving that Christian love never fails.
Another example of faith and endurance was seen in Seoul Korea.
Since 1953, young Korean brothers have been imprisoned for refusing military service.
Altogether, over 19,000 brothers who refused to compromise their faith spent nearly 37,000 years in prison.
Delegates were able to visit a neutrality exhibition to learn more about the strong faith and unwavering courage these young brothers displayed.
On February 28, 2019, the last of our imprisoned brothers were released.
Because I received a not guilty verdict just two weeks ago, I was able to attend this international convention.
I am so grateful to Jehovah.
My son receiving this acquittal enabled him to attend this convention. We never imagined this would be possible.
What a joy it was for these brothers to attend this historic international convention, alongside their families and thousands of foreign delegates.
Just being able to sit next to my son for the convention completely fills my heart.
Despite an ongoing economic crisis, many delegates from Venezuela were able to attend the International Convention in Sao Paulo, Brazil.
Coming from Venezuela, it's difficult to earn a living or save money.
We have to sell our electronic devices and work long hours to be here.
But these sacrifices will always be worth it.
The love we show to our brothers is possible because of the love Jehovah shows us.
An expression of his love to us comes in the form of his word the Bible.
In Copenhagen, Denmark, delegates from Iceland were delighted to receive a special gift.
We are happy to announce a release of the Icelandic New World Translation of the Dreshing Research.
Additionally, at several 2019 international conventions, our brothers received the revised New World Translation in the language of their heart.
I can really feel the love from Jehovah.
He's given us this wonderful gift because he wants us to know that the words in this book are from him.
The conventions also gave thousands the opportunity to express their love for Jehovah by symbolizing their dedication to him through baptism.
The love amongst our brothers was evident to onlookers as well.
The police directing traffic had less work than they normally do.
The atmosphere was so contagious that they started greeting foreign and local delegates.
They were so happy.
They said, this country does not need more police.
What it needs is more Jehovah's Witnesses.
Our 2019 international conventions have given us an opportunity to demonstrate how Jehovah's love motivates us to love.
Well, as we approach the end of this system of things, we're going to need love more than ever before.
Of course, we need loyalty. Of course, we need endurance. And of course, we're going to sing that song of courage.
But remember what else we want? Jehovah's loyal love.
May we be determined to imitate Him in letting our love never, ever fail all to Jehovah's glory.
Our program has focused on meeting the challenge of bearing thorough witness.
Before we close, here's the video postcard of our I Modest Speaking Brothers and Sisters in Bolivia.
This South American country is home to about 28,500 publishers and nearly 7,000 pioneers.
Bolivia officially recognizes Spanish and 36 indigenous languages, including I Moda.
Of the country's 11 million people, about 1.6 million speak I Moda.
This is the remote translation office in the city of El Alto.
Twenty translators are helping to provide Bible-based literature in the I Moda language.
In 2017, the New World Translation of the Christian Greek Scriptures was released in I Moda.
Most of the I Moda speaking territory surrounds beautiful Lake Titicaca and includes parts of Bolivia and Peru.
Reaching those in isolated villages involves hours of traveling and walking.
The response is encouraging.
The I Moda people respect God's word and highly appreciate spiritual discussions.
Today there are 31 I Moda congregations and 14 I Moda language groups in Bolivia.
The Copacabana I Moda congregation is located at an altitude of 3,800 meters or nearly 12,500 feet.
The congregation includes this isolated group located about an hour and a half from Copacabana.
Copacabana is a very popular tourist spot.
People come from around the world to see Indian culture and beautiful Lake Titicaca.
The congregation engages in many forms of public witnessing.
Their territory even includes an island in the middle of the lake.
Our brothers and sisters of the Copacabana I Moda congregation send you their warm Christian love and greetings.
From the world headquarters of Jehovah's Witnesses, this is J.W. Broadcasting.